---
title: "Modeling and simulation speed-up of plasma actuators implementing reconfigurable hardware"
collection: publications
excerpt: ''
date: 2018-08-01
venue: 'AIAA Journal'
paperurl: 'https://arc.aiaa.org/doi/abs/10.2514/1.J056382'
citation: 'Ebrahimi A, Zandsalimy M. Modeling and simulation speed-up of plasma actuators implementing reconfigurable hardware. AIAA Journal. 2018 Aug;56(8):3035-46. doi: https://doi.org/10.2514/1.J056382.'
---

### Abstract:

The objective of the present study is to investigate the capability of field-programmable gate array hardware in numerical simulation of a model of a dielectric barrier discharge plasma actuator to accelerate the calculations. The reconfigurable hardware is designed such that it is possible to reprogram its architecture after manufacturing. This provides the capability to design and implement various architectures for several applications. Two reconfigurable chips are used in the present study, one of which consists of a programmable logic unit and a typical microprocessor. This hybrid architecture makes the high performance of the reconfigurable hardware in custom computing and the efficiency of the microprocessor in data flow control accessible. An automated design procedure is used for the design of the reconfigurable hardware. Further, a finite difference representation of a phenomenological model of a plasma actuator is derived and implemented on the field-programmable gate array hardware. The results are validated against other numerical data, and the computational time is compared to different conventional processors. Using the reconfigurable hardware results in up to 96% computational time reduction compared to a recent Core i7 processor.


### Keywords:
Plasma Actuator, Application Specific Integrated Circuits, Numerical Simulation, Dielectric Barrier Discharge, High Performance Computing Systems.

<embed src="/files/2018-08-01-paper/report.pdf" type="application/pdf" height="100%" width="100%">